readme.md, before:

# About
Example of horizontally scalable websocket backend for [y-js](https://github.com/yjs/yjs) to be used with [y-websocket](https://github.com/yjs/y-websocket) provider with persitence to postgresql using [knex](http://knexjs.org/).

# Usage
1. `npm ci`
2. `npm run build`
3. `cp .env.example .env.local`
4. Fill in `.env.local`
5. `npm run tables` -> creates the tables for doc persistence in db
5. `npm run dev` -> starts the websocket-server
6. On the client-side, initialize a yjs doc and use the y-websocket provider to connect to the websocket-server

# How it works
This repo is a slightly reworked websocket server found in the y-websocket repo([link](https://github.com/yjs/y-websocket/blob/master/bin/server.js)).

The websocket-server that comes with y-websocket essentially maintains a copy of the y-js document(s) in memory and syncs it between different clients connected to the same doc.

The websocket-server in this repo isolates the updates that clients send to it, persists these updates to the database, and publishes these updates (using redis-pubsub) in a channel for the document. Also, when a doc is created for the first time in the websocket-server, the server reads all the updates stored in the database, and applies those updates to the document, effectively initializing it.

This makes the websocket-server provided in this repo persistent and horizontally-scalable on paper.

The code in this repo hasn't been tested in a production system yet, and from the looks of it, will be a long time before I would be able to run it on a production system, but theoretically, the code in this repo should be sufficient and can be tweaked to suit any project.

Commit message:

replace knex with firebase, successfully establishing y-redis with firebase persistance

readme.md, after:

# About
Example of horizontally scalable websocket backend for [y-js](https://github.com/yjs/yjs) to be used with [y-websocket](https://github.com/yjs/y-websocket) provider with persitence to firebase.

# Usage
1. `npm ci`
2. `npm run build`
3. `cp .env.example .env.local`
4. `npm run dev` -> starts the websocket-server
5. On the client-side, initialize a yjs doc and use the y-websocket provider to connect to the websocket-server

# How it works
This repo is a slightly reworked websocket server found in the yjs-scalable-ws-backend repo([link](https://github.com/kapv89/yjs-scalable-ws-backend)) which is a slightly modified version of y-websocket repo([link](https://github.com/yjs/y-websocket/blob/master/bin/server.js)).

The websocket-server that comes with y-websocket essentially maintains a copy of the y-js document(s) in memory and syncs it between different clients connected to the same doc.

The websocket-server in this repo isolates the updates that clients send to it, persists these updates to the database, and publishes these updates (using redis-pubsub) in a channel for the document. Also, when a doc is created for the first time in the websocket-server, the server reads all the updates stored in the database, and applies those updates to the document, effectively initializing it.

This makes the websocket-server provided in this repo persistent and horizontally-scalable on paper.

The code in this repo hasn't been tested in a production system yet, and from the looks of it, will be a long time before I would be able to run it on a production system, but theoretically, the code in this repo should be sufficient and can be tweaked to suit any project.
